---
layout: post
published: false
title: Netflix is Throwing It All Away
author: maxwell keyes
date: '2011-09-19 14:31:43 -0700'
date_gmt: '2011-09-19 18:31:43 -0700'
categories:
- personal
tags:
- netflix
- cord-cutters
- cable
- streaming video
comments: []
---

I recently watched the video apology from Netflix Co-Founder and CEO, Reed Hastings.

<iframe width="500" height="284" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/c8Tn8n5CIPk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I really expected to gain some insight on why Netflix raised their pricing which
would help me to understand why it was necessary, something along the lines of
it being necessary for negotiating better content with content providers. As it
turns out, it sounds like a bunch of bullshit.

How does splitting Netflix into two separate companies help them focus better on
one thing or the other? I can perhaps understand from a website development
stance that it's a bit complicated trying to program their system to handle new
things like video games in the rental queues (something they mentioned adding to
the new Quickster DVD-by-mail service, with streaming video handled by the same
website...but really come on...it can't be holding you back that much. If it's
about organization, can't two divisions within the same company be formed to
handle the two different services?

This sounds like bullshit you're trying to pass on your customers, as you didn't
justify it at all. Did you really think this was going to help? I kept a tight
lip when a friend of mine talked about how he was mad that you raised the rates
without formal notification. I figured that you're just trying to make the
service better, and really getting DVD's and unlimited streaming video for the
price that was offered was just too good of a deal. I didn't have a problem with
that...but to do this and then not improve the service with better content, or
at least communicate to your clients that is what you're working on
accomplishing...and then pull this and make the service more inconvenient?!?!
Seriously Reed?

Don't you understand that people just want convenient entertainment, and being
able to watch streaming video while they wait for the DVD in the mail, and
manage both via the same queue, was the whole reason why customers were with
you? Don't you know that should you raise the rates, somehow those customers
should be getting more?

You're __throwing away__ all the value you provided, the respect that your
customers had for your company, all out the window. I expected you to be the
leader in the entertainment revolution, with all the support of your streaming
service added to Roku boxes, video game systems, or desktop applications (such
as Boxee). I expected you to steal away all those clients who are tired of
paying for a bunch of shit programming for $100 a month through a cable
provider, opting to pay you $15 for your service, and $30-$50 for their
broadband internet service. I expected you to bring the cable industry to it's
knees, just like you've done with Blockbuster. Even Redbox doesn't have the
advantage you have ...no late fees resulting from the everlasting tendency for
humans to get occupied with other things while that DVD sits on the table.

I expected the cost of better content to mean raises in your pricing. If people
are using the service too much, cutting into your profits, I would understand
implementing a change in packages that imposes limits or something ...but I
never expected this.

Here's an idea, feel free to take it and use it. Leave your customers on the
current price and service, and if you're wanting to improve the service as an
initiative into the future, offer that extra programming for an extra price.
Kind of like 'Want content from Disney, or Sony, or whatever? That will be an
extra $10 per month.' If you do that, you won't get lashback from your customer
base.
