---
layout: post
published: false
title: A Letter to My Former Self
author: Jason Miller
wordpress_id: 1577
wordpress_url: http://www.redconfetti.com/?p=1577
date: '2014-05-30 03:20:34 -0700'
date_gmt: '2014-05-30 07:20:34 -0700'
categories:
- personal
tags:
- pick up artist
- misogyny
- elliot rodgers
---

This is a work in progress.

I just heard about this massacre in Isla Vista recently, with a friend posting
an article on Facebook regarding th [misogynist
extremism](http://www.newstatesman.com/lifestyle/2014/05/lets-call-isla-vista-killings-what-they-were-misogynist-extremism)
that largely influence this event. At first I thought that the author of the
article was reaching to label this as rooted in misogyny. After it was pointed
out how he had posted [racist / misogynist
statements](http://jezebel.com/elliot-rodgers-final-videos-racist-postings-leaked-1581163115),
and was an active member of an extremely misogynist [PUAhate
forum](http://www.mediaite.com/online/what-is-puahate-a-look-into-elliot-rodgers-anti-pickup-artist-hangout/)
online, I conceded that this was influenced by a type of misogyny I didn't know
existed. I didn't even know about a PUAhate culture.

One thing that stands out in the context of Elliot specifically is that I really
think that he's a [3 with a 4
wing](https://web.archive.org/web/20120407190749/http://mindheart.org/junction/oldcj/ep/types/3/34.html)
on the Enneagram of Personality. This can offer some understanding of his
specific orientation of image consciousness, and envy, and how at his lowest
level is predisposed to being psychopathic, prone to murder even (see [Unhealthy
levels](http://www.enneagraminstitute.com/typethree.asp)).

I have my own form of PUA distain, and sympathize with the story and torment
that Elliot Rodger described. But instead of running away from the pain and
torment of my own self judgement, and opting to scapegoat women as the cause of
my torment, I instead found a way of looking for the truth and liberation in the
situation. I still continue to find out what is keeping me from getting my needs
met as a human being who has a heart that yearns for friendship, love,
admiration, affection, and deeply connected and satisfying sexual union.

I identify with Elliot Rodger, not in his envy and misogyny, but in the root of
his story. I've experienced the same messages from our culture about what a man
is supposed to be, and how he is supposed to act, to get his needs met.

If I was to write a letter to Elliot Rodger, or anyone who sympathizes with him,
this would be it. It's more a letter to my younger self, but I really suspect
that it's relevant.

---

## Self Judgement

The root of your torment is self judgement. Ever since you were a child you had
experiences that caused you to form beliefs about what is good and bad. These
beliefs formed a structure of your psyche known as the
[superego](http://psychology.about.com/od/sindex/g/def_superego.htm), which
consists of our ego ideal (what is good for us and others to be) and the
conscience (what is bad for us and others to be). Everyone forms this structure,
as a normal course of ego development, and it can be quite useful to us as
children. However as time passes, these beliefs are no longer relevant as
adults, and thus the beliefs expressed by the conscience can be limiting.
Instead of supporting our survival, our beliefs can become like a prison cell
within our own minds, with our conscience/inner critic acting as the most
negatively disempowering cell mate.

Our inner critic often takes the truth inside anything resembling criticism of
us, and wraps the truth of that criticism with judgement. It takes the truth and
wraps it with messages like "and so you're unworthy", "and so you're eternally
flawed", or "and this is another example of how you're not worthy of existence".
For example your truth might be that you made a mistake on a project. Our
thought to ourselves might start off as "You made a mistake", but then our inner
critic continues it with "...because you're useless and will never do anything
right". If you think about it, how does this help anyone? Wouldn't it be better
if we simple were able to think "I made a mistake", followed up with "...and I
can avoid this in the future if I learn from the mistake". Condemnation doesn't
help to make people better. All it does it break them down and make them feel
unable to be better.

And since no one likes to experience the negative unending emotional pain, we've
developed many coping mechanisms to avoid the torment and depression that come
from wallowing in the self loathing of our inner critic. Often this involves
forming a story about ourselves that makes us superior to others, rather than
the fear that we are actually inferior. This is just a delusion, and is the
story behind most bullying that you have ever experienced. It's interesting how
the bullies were actually just as insecure and afraid as you are. It's a mask of
superiority that is meant to hide our true sense of inferiority.

Other various defense mechanisms exist, and they vary from person to person, and
the defense mechanisms make it very difficult for us to accept the harsh truth
about ourselves. Because the harsh truth can remind us of criticism, we can
believe that those that point out the harsh truths about us are criticizing us
with harsh judgement, because it triggers those harsh judgements within our own
minds. We have to realize that these judgements are more internal than external.
The only way to know the truth is to start owning what is ours.

If you can learn to accept yourself, where you are at right now in your
development, you will not need to run away from the truth any longer, because it
won't be accompanied by the pain associated with self judgement. I encourage you
to learn to be open and honest, not just with other people, but with yourself,
so that you can see clearly how your attitudes and judgement not only hurt you,
but also keep you disconnected from other people.

Undoing self judgement is one part of the process, but the other side of the
coin is the judgement of others. I realized one day that my judgement of other
people is something that causes me to avoid connecting with others. Even when
you consider yourself a nice person, and you keep your judgements to yourself,
it can rears it's ugly head by making us uncomfortable around the people we
carry judgements about, grimacing, and not fully engaged with full acceptance of
them. When we identify these judgements as our own, we can be ashamed of them.
We can disconnect from this though once we realize that it's not our own, but
something we picked up from the culture around us ever since we were children.

We have to learn to accept ourselves as we are. Even though we believe that
doing so will mean that we remain stuck where we are, unwanted and unloved, the
truth is that once you let go of your current orientation and attitude, people
will be more comfortable around you. It's not easy, but finding the way to be
yourself, authentically, people react to you differently. There is more ease,
and more energy available to you, when you're not trying to put on a front, or
trying to filter yourself. You don't have to be up in your head, calculating how
to be. You're not going to all of a sudden be loved by everyone, but the more
you practice self acceptance, the more you'll be able to learn about yourself
and grow, and eventually people will notice this and you will attract good
people.

## Compatibility

Like I said, you're not going to all of a sudden be loved by everyone. This
isn't possible. You'll eventually attain the ability to be comfortable around
people, and thus have more opportunities for friendship. Believe me, having more
friends in general makes you less tormented and lonely, which ins turn effects
your mood, and makes you more approachable by people. A community of friends
that you can spend time with are a great support system in not feeling that
loneliness.

You may feel alone and isolated, but the first thing you need to accept is that
all human relationships are not meant to be a great match. Even if you're
without friends (male or female), and the past 10 friendships you've tried to
establish have failed, that doesn't mean that out of the hundreds or thousands
of other people that you could meet aren't a great match for you.

You may think that because the last 10, 20, 30, etc people you've tried to
create friendship with didn't work out, that you are flawed, different, and too
eccentric or strange to have good friends. This isn't true. Everyone is so
unique in their cultural background and personality type in so many ways that
finding the type of friendships, and certainly close romantic relationships,
that are effortless to be in are not easy to find for anyone. You have to get
out there and meet lots of people, and find people that are compatible with you.

Even if you have some sort of condition, such as autism, that makes it difficult
for you to relate to others, you may find that others with the same condition
have much understanding and in common with you.

I don't care about sports at all, and my co-workers at my last job talked about
sports often. One of the outings our team did was to go to a baseball game,
which I enjoyed, but I wasn't deeply into it. I felt like I couldn't connect
with these people and their interest in sports that bonded them. I used this as
the fodder for my lament, how I just am so unique in my political orientation,
my interest in music, and nerdy computer topics, that I just don't have things
to talk about that people share interests with.

The thing that broke me out of this was realizing that everyone can't be totally
awesome with you. It's not your fault, or their fault, it just is. Everyone
isn't destined to have chemistry with everyone. Conversations are going to vary
in their potential shelf life. With some people, you'll be able to have a
conversation for 5 minutes before it dies off and you have nothing else to talk
about with each other. Other times it will go longer. It could go on for weeks,
and then at some point end. The key is to not have expectations, and to not take
it personally when the conversation dies, and your interest in talking to each
other is over. This doesn't mean anything about you. It's just the way it is.
You don't have to beat yourself up about it. Just be like "Okay, well it's been
nice talking to you, I'm going to go talk to others now". Keep on looking, and
actually learn to avoid situations that are not likely to involve people that
you'd share interests with. You'll find that people are more compatible with you
at events that involve topics you're passionate about. If you're interested in
hiking, join a hiking group in your area on
[meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/).

## Crushing Depression

I know from my own experience that every time you approached a possible
friendship, and certainly a possible romantic interest (a date), and it ended in
rejection that it put you in a depressive state for several days each time. But
you have to trust that there are people out there that you can have an
effortless conversation with, where you're not hiding behind some act meant to
impress the person, but simply being you... plain and simple. In fact, sometimes
you'll find someone who is a wonderful friend, and this person has a social
network of friends who you also will get along with very well to varying
degrees.

Making friends with people, and being yourself, you may even eventually be
brought to events that you didn't know about, and meet new people with these
friends as your anchor. Eventually, you may even meet a very compatible love
interest. Do not think that you're wasting time by spending time with friends.
It will support your heart and provide some acceptance without all the pressure
you may feel when trying to pursuit a love interest, and may lead to the
introduction of compatible people. Plus you'll be more stable and ready, less
desperate, and thus more approachable if you're more content with your life full
of good friends.

## Social Hierarchy

Something that tormented me greatly throughout my childhood was being in a
position of lesser privilege than others in the area I grew up in. I was in a
lower-middle class family, and went to a school that was dominated by a culture
of people who were middle class and trying to maintain the image of upper class.
In middle school other kids were accepted into social groups that seemed to
require the ownership of name brand tshirts such as Stussy or Mossimo that my
mother wasn't willing to expend the funds for, opting to purchase shirts from
Walmart, possibly Target, or a thrift store. The same was true regarding single
gear Mongoose bicycles, which were not common in Walmart during the 90s like
they are today, but instead only available in serious independent bike shops.

Later during high school it became instead Tommy Hilfiger clothes, or other
expensive name brands, as the status symbol. There was a cross over between the
"Preps" that would wear these types of clothes, and another group of cliques
that consisted of the jocks. If you were involved in football for the school,
you were the beloved source of funding, and thus received preferential
treatment. When ever I saw this form of privileged treatment, it always
communicated to me that I wasn't as valuable because of my own interests in
computers.

The jocks also represented a type of false masculinity that I couldn't adapt to
or emulate. It always left me feeling gross.

Understand that this social hierarchy is a part of our culture. The children,
teenagers, or adults in your life that treat others based on this become fewer
as you go on through life. It's not as prevalent in college as it was in high
school. The children pick it up from their parents, and apply it to the cliques
they would have formed regardless of the social hierarchy (based on mutual
interests), and there isn't anything to stop it. It's like lord of the flies,
with the children making their own rules. But this ends after high school, and
it's lost as people are put into the real world where hopefully they are forced
to achieve their jobs from actual talent and ability, not based on the position
of their family. Sure, this is a topic in itself, the topic of
[privilege](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privilege_(social_inequality)), which
is a serious thing that still exists... but it's not the rule of the world like
it was in your middle and high school years.

## The Game

The "game" is bullshit. There is no game. The only way to get respect from
people is to not play games and be straight up. "Games" are the tool of people
operating from insecurity. People that play games do so because they're afraid
that their actual needs and desires are something shameful, or at least that
being explicit and clear is going to make things awkward and ruin all chances of
getting their needs met.

You're only getting in your own way by hiding behind your own nature as a man
with sexual desires and not being straight up. Hiding behind any sort of shame,
trying to be coy and smooth is the bullshit of insecure men trying to act like
they know how to be successful with women.

As far as those pick up artist techniques, run far far away from those. Your
intuition already tells you this, I'm just speaking to it loud and clear. What
you really want, true love, cannot ever come from any sort of compulsion or
manipulation. Going down any path of manipulation or compulsion to attain
getting your needs met, will not actually meet your needs, but only lead to
frustration when that pain in your heart still continues because you know that
it's not really the true validation that you seek.

As I mentioned above, you cannot be fully yourself with all your natural
qualities shining for others to see when you're up in your head, caught up in
how you should act, how you should be, what you should say, etc. etc.
Engineering the social situation to get your needs met will never work. People
intuitively can detect this, and it turns them off.

Strange as it may be, once you're comfortable with yourself, and you're not
trying to be funny or charming, your natural ability to become funny or charming
can manifest. It's a fucking paradox, but that's how it is. It arises naturally,
without manufacturing, without interference, without trying. But you have to
work on yourself to allow it. Many other aspects of your being can manifest as
well the more you work on yourself.

## Confidence

The topic of confidence will come up, and you'll struggle with it very much in
trying to be "masculine". Even though you know that you're authentic and not
afraid to admit that
[Girls Just Want to Have Fun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PIb6AZdTr-A) is an
amazing song, the alpha male concept will still plague you and you'll wonder if
you're somehow missing something, and this is why you aren't getting the
attention from women that you crave.

It seems like alpha males are confident in some sort of playful yet cocky way.
This may fool some women temporarily, but it's bullshit. So what is real
confidence? It seems like a paradox that you're stuck in, but I learned the key
to understanding it from
[Models: Attract Women Through Honesty](https://amzn.to/3Xlq3VQ) by Mark Manson.
Mark Manson is kind of a douche, so I'm not totally advocating for him as a
person, but his book is chocked full of truth, at least if you're approaching it
from the perspective I did and were able to integrate it fully.

In a nutshell the thing that rang true from this book was this - Vulnerability
is the key to confidence. Think about it. Only if you are fully being yourself,
and vulnerable to how people might evaluate that, will people respect you and
see you as confident. When you're afraid of being rejected, you're more prone to
doing all you can to avoid it. But if you're totally willing to accept
rejection, and not see it as a personal attack, but just the way it is, people
can feel more comfortable around you. They respect you because you respect
yourself. Deep fully vulnerability is the only way to be comfortable, confident,
and unapologetic.

## References

* [Overcome Your Programming and Be a Better Man][]
* [Your Princess Is In Another Castle - Misogyny, Entitlement, and Nerds][]

[Overcome Your Programming and Be a Better Man]: http://thechrisgethardshow.tumblr.com/post/87041806996/overcome-your-programming-and-be-a-better-man
[Your Princess Is In Another Castle - Misogyny, Entitlement, and Nerds]: http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/05/27/your-princess-is-in-another-castle-misogyny-entitlement-and-nerds.html
