---
layout: post
published: false
title: Brainbench Personality Test
author: maxwell keyes
date: '2003-10-11 01:41:00 -0500'
categories:
- personal
tags:
- Devereux
- Mindleader
- Brainbench
- personality test
---

Well. I just finished another week with Devereux's IT Department. I'm a little
stressed out because I'm trying to work hard and get things done quickly so this
job doesn't turn out to be a temporary job, but a permanent one. I'm going to
start going through Novell, CISCO, and basic networking/internet training at
Mindleaders.com...and I plan on going as far as getting certified.

In addition to [Mindleaders.com](http://www.mindleaders.com/) I went into my old
account at [Brainbench](http://www.brainbench.com/). They have a very very
interesting personality test you can take for free there.

Here is the important text from the results I got after taking the test:

## Part One

### Your Social Boldness: Introverted VS Extraverted

You are moderatel! y introverted. I bet you hear this a lot, "You are so nice."
That is because you do not have a brash, bold personality, instead you are warm
and friendly and a pleasure to be around. You are not into the wild, crazy
nightlife scene. To you a nice social atmosphere tends to be a quieter, more
comfortable place where you can spend time with good friends. Your cooperative
nature is especially pleasant in a group atmosphere where decisions must be
made. You may not always be the person who initiates conversations or talks
first in a meeting, but when you have something important to say you are willing
to share it. At times you can be shy, but this does not mean that you are being
standoffish, just that you are cautious and need time to assess the situation.

### Your Agreeableness: Candid VS Considerate

You are moderately considerate. You are an agreeable person. This means that you
are well liked and people really enjoy your company. And why wouldn't they?
People can sense that you are taki hem feel special and as a result, they have
high regards for you. With your altruistic personality, you get a lot of
practice at making people feel special. In fact, you feel great joy when you
help others. Another nice feature you possess is your ability to cooperate. Not
everyone can do this, so it is very important in a meeting or social situation
to have someone like you present in order to maintain a harmonious situation.
This comes from your tendency to want equality and fairness. In dealing with
others, you prefer not to manipulate people instead you tend to be open and
sincere. This makes you a popular and well-respected individual.

### Your Self-Control:Impulsive VS Cautious

You are very impulsive. You are an independent thinker. You do not need a book
of rules to tell you how to behave - you know inside what is right and what is
wrong and you act accordingly. You are able to live life spontaneously, because
you are able to make decisions without endless deliberation. In fact, when you
and another person are making a decision, you are able to reach a solution
fairly quickly while the other person has to cautiously plan every step.
Eventually, they will agree with you, which is frustrating when your first
impulse is usually the correct one in the decision-making process. You tend to
be a little more casual, and you do not feel out of sorts when your home or
office is not perfectly neat. In general, your life is pleasurable - you know
how to have fun and will never be accused of being staid or stuffy.

### Your Anxiety Level: Excitable VS Relaxed

You are moderately excitable. In trying situations, you feel somewhat stressed
and frustrated. At times you are able to overcome these feelings, but other
times you feel overwhelmed. This could run the gamut of just being in a bad mood
to experiencing anxiety, anger, or depression. In general, you prefer a
stress-free existence, so that the possibility of negative mewhat self-conscious
in social situations, and are worried that people may judge or criticize you.
You may react emotionally to people or circumstances that you find threatening,
because you want to protect yourself. Every so often you cave into urges or
cravings. Sometimes you feel a little guilty about it, other times you are just
fine with your fun streak.

### Your Openness to Change: Practical VS Imaginative

You are moderately practical. You tend to be more comfortable when your daily
activities are familiar and unchanging, rather than constantly in a state of
flux. You prefer to deal with facts and not ideas. You prefer to be more
practical and pragmatic, but you are able to be creative when the situation
calls for it. You prefer the conversation or situation to be more
straightforward. Emotionally, you are more conservative and tend not to express
your feelings openly. You have a proper demeanor, which summons respect from
those around you.

### The way you Think/Reason:Concrete VS Abstract

You are slightly concrete in your thinking. Your thinking is neither simple nor
complex, to others you appear to be a well-educated person but not an
intellectual. You tend to be intellectually curious and have the uncanny
abilities to distinguish imaginative, creative people from down-to-earth,
conventional people.

## PART 2: OCCUPATIONAL PREFERENCE EVALUATION

You appear to be suited for a Social career. Social people seem to satisfy their
needs in teaching or helping situations. They are drawn more to seek close
interpersonal relationships and are less apt to engage in intellectual of
extensive physical activity. The S type generally likes to help, teach, and
counsel people more than engage in mechanical or technical activity. The S type
usually likes to be around other people, working in groups and sharing
responsibilities. They are good communicators and are interested in with their
problems. They like nursing, or giving first aid and providing information. They
generally avoid using machines, tools, or animals to achieve a goal. They see
themselves as helpful, friendly, and trustworthy.

----

I personally think that these results are true. I don't like some of them...but
I am what I am and the results of this test should change as I develop further
into the person I want to be. I think its important that I'm able to get along
with people, as long as I have integrity reguarding the things which I do truly
understand.

I've thought to myself before that if a person is not complelled to do what is
morally correct by their code of morality they claim to hold, then they do not
actually understand that code of morality. Since morality is knowledge, and
knowledge takes time and effort to understand, then I will not condemn someone
morally! unless I am completely sure that they have actually disreguard the
clear explanation of the damages that will result from their actions when they
have been warned or alerted to their problem.

The only problem is that I'm not extremely good at starting relationships with
other people. I don't greet people well, or follow the smooth appropriate flow
of polite gestures.

I'll work on it.
