---
layout: post
published: true
title: God Says Kill
author: maxwell keyes
date: '2003-06-04 00:00:00 -0500'
categories:
- personal
tags:
- capitalism
- reason
- philsophy
---

There are things which we cannot change, and there are things which we can. We
cannot change the laws of physics, and other such laws of science, because they
are inescapable. Have you ever rolled a cubic piece of plastic across a tile
floor? When you drop an object in mid-air, it falls right? You must understand
the rules of reality to understand how you can shape the resources of reality to
fit your needs. I know that I can't just chop wood with my hand, and that I need
something sharp with the strength of steel. I know that if I build a cabin to
provide shelter for myself with this wood properly, it will not fall. In
building my home, I've taken the natural resources of this reality and changed
its form to fit my need. This is creation. There is no way for me to create
something out of mid-air. I cannot just pronounce some magical sentence and make
a cabin appear out of air. Creation is only taking what is given, and reforming
it into something else.

> "Nature to be commanded, must be obeyed"
> - Francis Bacon

That which is created by man, is the man made. That which is a natural occurance
without the actions of man, is not the man made. The man made can and should be
evaluated by your own mind before you accept it. That which is not man made is
just part of nature and cannot be critiqued. A tree standing on untouched land
is what it is, and could not have been otherwise. You can't say that a tree or
bush or plant or mountain is wrong? There was no mistake made because it wasn't
created by a living thinking being. A house built by a man can and should be
judged by certain standards because it could have been otherwise. If a man
builds a house the size of a walk in closet for a family of 4, then by the
standard of its function (which is to provide living space for a family of 4) I
can say it is wrong with full confidence. Anything man made can be analyzed and
judged based on appropriate standards. Anything that is not man-made had no
alternative; it could only have been what it currently stands to be.

Ideas presented to you by the speech of men are man made in every sense, as well
as those ideas in the form of text inside of a book. One problem many people
face is their acceptance of the man made without evaluation. They accept what is
told to them without taking the required effort of thinking about the
consequences. We are conceptual beings, which means that we can understand the
consequences of our actions. We can know that a glass vase will break once
pushed off a table onto a hard tile floor. We can know that if we step on broken
glass barefooted, we will cut our feet and bleed. We can also know the
consequences of our actions much farther than this, not by some mystic power or
revelation, but by using our mind to follow the logical events which follow in
our own minds. Its extremely unfortunate that there are people that accept what
is preached to them, without using their minds to understand the consequences
they are actually supporting. They are being mentally lazy when they do this,
taking a shortcut to knowledge. There is no shortcut however, because what they
gain is not knowledge.

Men who accept the propositions of their peers, family, and/or culture without
evaluating those propositions do not deserve the right to uphold the values
which those propositions imply. It can be stated simply that if someone accuses
your best friend of murder, you don't just accept it as truth and allow your
friend to be punished for such a crime. You thoroughly make sure there is no
evidence to support this accuasation. In any other situation, there must be
evidence. It can be understood that a person will make the error or accepting a
false attempt at evidence, or even a lie. But there are people accepting and
basing their entire lives on propositions which have no evidence.

Suppose you live in a small town, and the majority of the town flock together to
protest something without providing any reason for their protest. Your parents,
friends, and everyone else are protesting. Some start protesting just because
everyone else is protesting, and they don't want everyone else to dislike them.
They don't want everyone else to think that they are against the protest, and
therefore automatically marked as evil by the protest leaders. Its best to play
it safe right? Suppose there are people who join the protest because they wanted
to belong, because it was implicitly expressed that belonging to the group of
people (to be social) was normal. Some people feel pride in being part of the
group. They finally belong even if for just a moment in their lives. Perhaps
they've joined the protest because they trust the judgement of everyone else. So
many people can't be wrong can they? Some perhaps decide that since they don't
have enough knowledge to really decide if the protest is right or wrong, they
just go with the majoritys stance on the issue. Perhaps some were told that they
needed to respect their elders knowledge just because they were older and more
experienced in life.

Instead of everyone else disliking you, you might feel a dim sense of guilt with
yourself for faking, if you're conscious of the lie you are commiting. The
problem is that there are people who don't understand this principle at all.
They think that following what the crowd says, and stating it from their mouths
means that they are "thinking" for themselves. They don't and can't feel any
guilt at all for their actions. They feel emboldened by the majority which is
backing them up. They accept that so many people support such a stance that it
can't be wrong.

People who uphold values without understanding the reasons for those values
leave themselves open to advocating evil. They leave themselves open to
accepting eventual self-destruction without knowing so. They support others with
the same error in thinking to their own self-destruction.

There is an organization that has existed for many centuries. They're protest
today is the product of centuries, changed to fit the followers needs and
doubts, and to fit the desires of the leaders of the protest.

What is greed? Its defined as "the excessive desire to acquire or possess more
than what one needs or deserves, especially with respect to material wealth." To
state that a desire to possess more than one needs is evil, is a terrible
injustice. There is nothing wrong with how much a person owns unless it is
attained by force or fraud. Greed is not evil. It is the desire for the
unearned, and not the creation of wealth through the fair exchange between
consenting people that is evil. Just because a person hasn't taken the necessary
action to produce a better quality of life for themselves does not automatically
make the ones who have produced such a quality of life guilty. The thieves are
the ones that are guilty. The ones who use whatever means necessary to force you
to give up what you have produced are the guilty.

The religious leaders have pointed at many and preached about greed, when
ironically they were the ones devoting their lives to the unearned. No matter
how greed is defined, it is the value of the unearned that is evil.

Again, how does one gain the unearned? By force or by fraud. This organization
has possed perhaps the biggest fraud in history. Where is the fraud in this
scenario? It is their weapon, the arbitrary concept of the supernatural.

Religion started as a means of explaining that which man did not understand. The
more we understand of the universe we live in, the more secure we become in
knowing that we can survive within it. In any field of study we may be at a
point of completely understanding all there is, or we may still be searching and
exploring to find all the answers. We are very far in some fields of science,
such as anatomy, because proof has been given which backs up our theories of how
the body works. In the field of behavioral psychology, we are still
experimenting and trying to understand how the mind works in its mental
processes. Philosophy today is typically viewed as though its in its lower
stages, or that is has no effect on our lives at all. This is untrue. It is one
of the most important parts of everyones life, whether they know it or not.

Philosophy answers the questions which everyone asks themselves at some point in
their lives.

Questions like "What is real?", "How do I learn and know what is real?", "How do
I act within a society?", and "What is the correct system for a society?". If a
person doesn't have the correct answers to these questions, then his actions
aren't going to be the correct ones to uphold his own survival. As I said, the
more we understand of the universe we live in, the more secure we are. We don't
truly understand unless the outcome of our actions are completely what we
expected.

The wrong answers to these questions will lead to problems in a person life, and
unfortunately once a man is provided with a philosophy, he is usually more than
willing to protect it as it provides him security with reality (or what he
thinks is real). Unfortunately the philosophies of various religions is actually
the real evil, destroying mans capacity to think for himself, telling him to
rely on the ideas (or control) of others. If followed completely with a total
disreguard to reason, religion is a great evil. The men who follow think they
are the ultimate authority, fighting for the greatest good, willing to be slaves
now under the promise of the greatest reward after their lives. Religion tells
men that this world is not for them, and that their suffering here will be
rewarded after they expire. This reward is the afterlife in heaven, and it is a
rubber check. The punishment is hell, and it is a great lie.

Judge for yourself the man made organization which tells you that you cannot
evaluate what it tells you. It tells you to abandon your ability to seek the
knowledge needed to understand the world ( see: the tree of knowledge). It made
questions against its dogma a deadly taboo, and labeled the questioners as
heretics (burning them at the stake at times). It tells you not to use your
ability to see the consequences of the actions it tells you to take (which
requires the knowledge they told you not to seek), which means to not judge it.
It tries to trick you and tell you that its ideas are not the man made, but made
by their invention they call "God", and leaves you open to the fear of the
unknown because "God works in mysterious ways", which explains why his whole
plan doesn't make any sense. This quote also can be used when a devout Christian
meets a tragic event in his life, and others wish to help him by reminding him
that even tragic events are for the best, and to be accepted as the will of God.
They tell you how to live your life without any reason, and to accept the reward
which cannot be proved to exist until after death. Its the worship of death
itself, giving people reasons to abandon hope in their lives for the ultimate
goal of the afterlife.

The organization that tells you to accept its ideas and to practice them without
questioning it. The organization which accepted one scientists theory on the
universe because it didn't contradict their dogma, but rejected Galileos proof
of orbiting moons around other planets ( a fact which any rational human being
not stuck in the dark ages accepts today) because it contradicted their dogma.
Why do we accept such a system that retards our progress in understanding the
world around us? The more we understand, the more secure we are with the world
around us, and the better we are able to work with it to survive, and hence the
happier we are. For what reason must we suffer here? Why do they not tell you to
enjoy life here and then enjoy it in heaven? Because they be able to subordinate
you to their whims if they told you otherwise?

The organization that tells you that you will be infinitely tortured by a being
which loves you, a being which you cannot sense except in the dreams and
hallucinations you might conjure your subconscious into presenting to you after
obsessing over the ideas they feed you. If such ideas were presented to
followers of the same organization under a different name without the following
of their parents, friends, and culture, it would be rejected as a cult, and the
leaders of the cult would be called insane!

Judge for yourself when the majority accepts this organization, and men use this
organization as a tool to satisfy their own agenda. The base of this
organization is their man made invention called God, and they claim a percentage
of your time, effort, and money as interest on the life which they claim their
invention gave you. People accept this claim for what it is without question,
and in response to any question you ask they will have an answer based on the
mystic non-reason you've already accepted. Again "God works in mysterious
ways..."

What would happen if we were in the same state as the middle east (because of
the actions of the middle east)? What if our nation was in a productive crisis,
the word 'economy' a joke, and the government took total control of the nation
in the name of national crisis (a crisis caused by the government in the first
place). To separate us now from the Islamic terrorists, they post "God bless
America" everywhere. The motto "One Nation Under God" stamped on our pennies by
Congress in 1954 to differentiate ourselves from our athiestic Communist
neighbors, becoming the official motto of a socialist theocracy? The separation
of church and state established by our Founding Fathers abolished using the
claim that this country was founded on religion. God and/or society being more
important than your right to exist as the supporter of yourself. God and/or
society being your master, and yourself a slave.

When a man has a problem with something and he wants the mob to assist him, he
preaches his cause in the name of God. You are accepting the same organization
as the Extremist Islamics in the Middle East region that praised the catastrophe
of the World Trade Center on September 11th, except under a different name and
form. You are accepting what you are told, and you are willing to support it
without question, as are the suicide bombers, for their God. You have no right
to support what they give you, because you are supporting it with the wrong
reasons or without any reason at all.

Are you going to accept these remnants from the Dark Ages that hide under the
reformed guise of success, which is really the success of the freethinkers. Many
modern theists choose not to see the past or the future of their religious
beliefs. Christianity is constantly trying to mold itself to modern culture, and
trying to hold on as long as it can. It tells people that the beliefs they give
you, which they require you to believe as your ticket away from hell, don't have
any consequences as far as actions are concerned. Sure! When it comes time for a
religious protest, what beliefs will compell them to the actions denoted by the
priests? "Abortion is murder in the eyes of God!" - So a group of Christians
murder a womens clinic worker, under the sense of a divine justice. "Oh...these
beliefs don't have any consequences as far as actions are concerned."

Trying thinking of the consequences of the actions of such a system. Only the
corrupt use a tool such as God, because God is whatever they claim God to be.
God can hate Jews. God can hate Americans. God can say your money belongs to me.
God can say your house belongs to me. God can say I am his son, as David Koresh
did. God can say that your wife is mine for all my sexual desires. God can say
that you must give your life in sacrifice for him to kill those which threaten
my...*cough* I mean, our beliefs. Are you going to wait till you can't evade
reality any longer and have no other option than to accept fully the orders of a
religious demogogue?

When Hitler says "This is what God wants", is it really God or Hitler speaking?
